\section{Conclusions}
\label{sec:conclusions}

As a characterisation of space designed to understand urban environments, spatial
signatures have the potential to provide unique insight into the ways human populations
create and inhabit their cities. The illustrations shown in the the previous section
indicate that the resulting patchworks of signatures are consequences of the combination
of a broad range of aspects stretching from topography, through historical development
to the current use of space, each influencing the nature of the urban environment in its
specific way.

The variability is also reflected in the changing scale and shape of the environment,
with very granular and organic patterns in medieval development, rigid grids of
industrial era and vast unbuilt natural areas limiting the expansion of nearby cities.
In this context, the enclosed tessellation shows a high degree of the adaptability of
the spatial unit, based on the geographical position in which cells are generated and
consistently reflects the pattern of both built and unbuilt areas.

The combination of form and function within a single classification method can tell more
than either of them would be able to do alone. Spatial Signatures therefore bridge
purely morphological approaches based on concepts like morphological region
\citep{oliveira2020}, Local Climate Zone \citep{stewart2012} or Urban Structural Type
\citep{lehner2019} and functional classification as land use and land cover
\citep{georganos2018very} or mobility and population \citep{gale2016creating}, while
building on their abilities to comprehensively describe a single aspect of the
environment. That said, compared to the most commonly available land cover
classification, Spatial Signatures are complimentary as they turn the focus to urban
landscapes. Where former offer rich sets of classes in non-urban environment but only a
handful in cities, the latter tends to provide more detail in cities and less outside of
them, underyling the focus of Spatial Signatures as a classification designed to
understand urban environments.

The proposed method provides a step forward in understanding the environment in a
detailed, granular manner. Spatial Signatures can be seen as a commons space between
different fields exploring cities. Many of the disciplines understands at least one of
the components built into signatures, from morpohologists being familiar with
morphometric assessment, through demographers and population data to economists and
retail allocation. This overlap between the fields can facilitate interdisciplinary
research on top of singatures as a shared basis.

Spatial signatures can become a backbone for actions aiming under the umbrella of
Sustainable Development Goals, one which is data-informed and can be targeted due to its
inherent granularity. Furthermore, policy within the context of rapid urbanisation on
the global South can benefit from classification, which combines form and function as
development patterns and varying levels of their formality are not always aligned with
the functional aspects of such environments.

% D: this section needs a push on writing
Spatial signatures are the way of thinking rather than a fixed method using the exact
set of variables. It is a way of conceptualising built (and non-built) environment. The
outputs from different regions or countries are different manifestations of the same
idea, leading to conceptual consistency rather than a strictly numerical one. Specific
regions may have specific needs regarding the characterisation that need to be
acknowledged in the applied method. Furthermore, as illustrated in the previous section,
data environments vary significantly, and we cannot assume the same quality worldwide.
However, all such adaptations are still entirely within the conceptual notion of spatial
signature.

% from here to the end: D: this needs more careful writing, it reads more like a
% drafting of ideas
Further research should look deeper into how signatures from different places and
periods relate to each other and how they differ, to understand the rules which are
common and those which are geographically specific. Mirroring Tobler's first law of
geography \citep{tobler1970computer}, similar cities tend to be located closer to each
other, indicating the potential of identification of underlying geographical patterns
within signatures.

Spatial signatures as a way of thinking about space from the perspectives of form and
function form a link between currently fragmented research. The resulting
classification embodies a plurality of perspectives leading to a richer picture of the
urban environment and its better understanding.
